Add TPC-H 100GB on TiDB 5.0 with MPP benchmark (#5244)
pingcap/docs: benchmark/v5.0-performance-benchmarking-with-tpch.md

---
title: TiDB TPC-H 100GB Performance Test Report -- v5.0 MPP mode vs. Greenplum 6.15.0 and Apache Spark 3.1.1
summary: Compare the TPC-H 100GB performance of TiDB 5.0 MPP mode, Greenplum 6.15.0, and Apache Spark 3.1.1.
---

# TiDB TPC-H 100GB Performance Test Report -- TiDB v5.0 MPP mode vs. Greenplum 6.15.0 and Apache Spark 3.1.1

## Test overview

> This test aims to compare the TPC-H 100 performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode with that of two mainstream analytics engines, Greenplum and Apache Spark, in their latest version. The test result shows that the performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode is two to three times better than other two solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test aims at comparing the TPC-H 100 performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode with that of two mainstream analytics engines, Greenplum and Apache Spark, in their latest versions. The test result shows that the performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode is two to three times better than the other two solutions.
```

> This test aims to compare the TPC-H 100 performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode with that of two mainstream analytics engines, Greenplum and Apache Spark, in their latest version. The test result shows that the performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode is two to three times better than other two solutions.

Author: ```suggestion
This test aims to compare the TPC-H 100GB performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode with that of Greenplum and Apache Spark, two mainstream analytics engines, in their latest version. The test result shows that the performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode is two to three times better than that of the other two solutions.
```

> This test aims at comparing the TPC-H 100 performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode with that of Greenplum and Apache Spark, two mainstream analytics engines, in their latest versions. The test result shows that the performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode is two to three times better than that of the other two solutions.

Author: ```suggestion
This test aims at comparing the TPC-H 100GB performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode with that of Greenplum and Apache Spark, two mainstream analytics engines, in their latest versions. The test result shows that the performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode is two to three times better than that of the other two solutions.
```

> This test aims at comparing the TPC-H 100GB performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode with that of Greenplum and Apache Spark, two mainstream analytics engines, in their latest versions. The test result shows that the performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode is two to three times better than that of the other two solutions.

Reviewer 2: "two to three times better" is not a proper description. Should be 
"2 to 3 times faster than that of the other two solutions under TPC-H workload"

> This test aims at comparing the TPC-H 100GB performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode with that of Greenplum and Apache Spark, two mainstream analytics engines, in their latest versions. The test result shows that the performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode is two to three times better than that of the other two solutions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This test aims at comparing the TPC-H 100GB performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode with that of Greenplum and Apache Spark, two mainstream analytics engines, in their latest versions. The test result shows that the performance of TiDB v5.0 in the MPP mode is two to three times faster than that of the other two solutions under TPC-H workload.
```

In v5.0, TiDB introduces the MPP mode for [TiFlash](/tiflash/tiflash-overview.md), which significantly enhances TiDB's Hybrid Transactional and Analytical Processing (HTAP) capabilities. Test objects in this report are as follows:

> + TiDB v5.0 column-based storage in the MPP mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ TiDB v5.0 columnar storage in the MPP mode
```

+ Greenplum 6.15.0
+ Apache Spark 3.1.1 + Parquet

## Test environment

### Hardware prerequisite

+ Node count: 3
+ CPU: Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU E5-2630 v4 @ 2.20GHz, 40 cores
+ Memory: 189 GB
+ Disks: NVMe 3TB * 2

### Software version

| Service type   | Software version   |
|:----------|:-----------|
| TiDB      | 5.0        |
| Greenplum   |  6.15.0  |
| Apache Spark | 3.1.1   |

### Parameter configuration

#### TiDB v5.0

For the v5.0 cluster, TiDB uses the default parameter configuration except for the following configuration items.

In the configuration file `users.toml` of TiFlash, configure `max_memory_usage` as follows:

```toml
[profiles.default]
max_memory_usage = 10000000000000
```

Set session variables with the following SQL statements:

```sql
set @@tidb_isolation_read_engines='tiflash';
set @@tidb_allow_mpp=1;
set @@tidb_opt_broadcast_join=0;
set @@tidb_mem_quota_query = 10 << 30;
```

> All TPC-H test tables replicated to TiDB are stored in column-based TiFlash, with no additional partitions or indexes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All TPC-H test tables are replicated to TiFlash in columnar format, with no additional partitions or indexes.
```

#### Greenplum

Except for the initial 3 nodes, the Greenplum cluster is deployed using an additional master node. Each segment server contains 8 segments, which means 4 segments per NVMe SSD. So there are 24 segments in total. The storage format is append-only/column-oriented storage and partition keys are used as primary keys.

{{< copyable "" >}}

```
log_statement = all
gp_autostats_mode = none
statement_mem = 2048MB
gp_vmem_protect_limit = 16384
```

#### Apache Spark

> The test of Apache Spark uses Apache Parquet as the storage format and stores the data on HDFS. The HDFS system consists of three nodes. Each node has two assigned NVMe SSD disks as the data disks. The Spark cluster is started standalone, using NVMe SSD disks as the local directory of `spark.local.dir` to speed up the shuffle spill, with no additional partitions or indexes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The test of Apache Spark uses Apache Parquet as the storage format and stores the data on HDFS. The HDFS system consists of three nodes. Each node has two assigned NVMe SSD disks as the data disks. The Spark cluster is deployed in standalone mode, using NVMe SSD disks as the local directory of `spark.local.dir` to speed up the shuffle spill, with no additional partitions or indexes.
```

{{< copyable "" >}}

```
--driver-memory 20G
--total-executor-cores 120
--executor-cores 5
--executor-memory 15G
```

## Test result

> **Note:**
>

> > The following test results are the average of three tests. All numbers are in seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The following test results are the average data of three tests. All numbers are in seconds.
```

| 5       |   12.27    | 23.35449    |      25.23    |
| 6       |    1.32    |   6.033     |      2.21     |
| 7       |    5.91    |   12.31266  |      25.45    |
| 8       |    6.71    |   11.82444  |      23.12    |
| 9       |   44.19    |   22.40144  |       35.2    |
| 10      |    7.13    |   12.51071  |      12.18    |
| 11      |    2.18    |  2.6221     |      10.99    |
| 12      |    2.88    |   7.97906   |      6.99     |
| 13      |    6.84    |   10.15873  |      12.26    |
| 14      |    1.69    |   4.79394   |       3.89    |
| 15      |   3.29     |   10.48785  |       9.82    |
| 16      |    5.04    |   4.64262   |       6.76    |
| 17      |   11.7     |   74.65243  |      44.65    |
| 18      |   12.87    |   64.87646  |      30.27    |
| 19      |    4.75    |   8.08625   |        4.7    |
| 20      |    8.89    |   15.47016  |        8.4    |
| 21      |   24.44    |   39.08594  |      34.83    |
| 22      |    1.23    |   7.67476   |       4.59    |

![TPC-H](/media/tidb-v5-tpch-100-vs-gp-spark.png)

In the performance diagram above:

- Blue lines represent TiDB v5.0;
- Red lines represent Greenplum 6.15.0;
- Yellow lines represent Apache Spark 3.1.1.

> - The y-axis represents the execution time of the query. The less the time, the better the performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The y-axis represents the execution time of the query. The less the time, the better the performance.
```
```suggestion
- The y-axis represents the execution time of the query. The less the time is, the better the performance is.
```
